# Maxim's Portfolio

## Formula 1

__Background:__ Formula 1 (aka F1) is an international racing series that currently involves ten different teams, each with two drivers. Since its inception in 1950, the number of teams has varied. Some of the teams, formally called “constructors”, are familiar to the general population through their production of commercial cars. These include Ferrari, Mercedes, McLaren, and Renault. Each race is known as a Grand Prix and the location of these races has changed (and will continue to change) over time. Currently in 2020, there are 10 teams in Formula 1 and 17 races in each season.

Determining the winner of the annual series works through a point system. The current system awards points to the top 10 drivers; the closer you finish to first, the more points you receive. The driver with the most points at the end of the season is the world champion. 

First is Friday practice where drivers have two 90-minute opportunities (once in the morning and once in the afternoon) to familiarize themselves with the track. On Saturday morning, the third and final practice session takes place for an hour and this is followed by qualifying in the afternoon. This afternoon session lasts about an hour and is split into 3 sessions: Q1, Q2, Q3. In the first qualifying session (Q1), all 20 drivers race on the track at the same time and the five slowest drivers are eliminated. They fill positions 16-20 in the actual race, corresponding to when they finished in this qualifying round. In Q2, the remaining 15 cars all race together and the slowest 5 cars are once again eliminated. These 5 drivers take positions 15-11, with their positions analogous to how they finsihed in Q2. Finally, in Q3, the remaining 10 drivers compete for pole (first) position and the fastest driver takes this position. This driver will start in first place on the grid when the race starts the following day, and the other drivers will start in the positions where they finished in Q3. Sunday is the day of the actual race where all drivers compete for podiums (top 3 placement). You can read more about the Grand Prix format [here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/formula_one/formula_one_grand_prix_format.htm).

### [1. __Driver Comparison__](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/mguzman123/Maxim-Guzman-Portfolio/blob/0cc8c2698fdc7a5a755e5492c2fba50582dfab48/notebooks/McLaren%202007%20-%20Lewis%20Hamilton%20vs.%20Fernando%20Alonso.ipynb)
In this exploratory data analysis project, we take two Formula 1 drivers and use different metrics to evaluate which one performed at a higher level in a single season.
